feat!: replace `mlh-tsd` with `tsd-lite` (#41)
jest-community/jest-runner-tsd: README.md

# jest-runner-tsd

> Run your TypeScript type tests using Jest.

[![version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-tsd)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://github.com/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

Note that since `v2` the `jest-runner-tsd` is using [`tsd-lite`](https://github.com/mrazauskas/tsd-lite) instead of [`tsd`](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd). The type testing logic is the same in both implementations, i.e. both of them are wrapping around the [TypeScript compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/Using-the-Compiler-API) to analyze types of your code.

## Differences from `tsd`

The usage of `tsd` with monorepos written in TypeScript may become [cumbersome](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd/issues/32), because of checks unrelated with types. `tsd-light` is an attempt to address these and similar issues.

Notable differences:

> - The `tsd` configuration in `package.json` is ignored. Please use `jest.config` to configure discovery of your test files and `tsconfig.json` to provide configuration for TS compiler.

Reviewer: does this mean if you have an `index.d.ts` file in root it cannot have its own config?

Author: In this case TS compiler configure is used for tests. These will live in separate directory most probably. So the root `tsconfig.json` may apply or can be extend or even overridden by adding a config to that directory. I have to rewrite this paragraph. Thanks for the note.

Reviewer: right, just wondering if we should accept a path somehow so people can point to a separate config file if they want... probably not needed

Author: Isolate a test file in a directory, drop a specific `tsconfig.json` there. Seems simple and clear. Later just add one more test file to that folder and all works.

Could be there are cases when accepting a path to config file is necessary, but I would wait to see if someone will open an issue.

It could be good idea to have `Configuration` section in the readme with more details. I will think about it.

- The compiler configuration will be read from the nearest `tsconfig.json` for each test file. Hence, you may have a configuration for the whole project, or a group of test files, or just a particular test file.
- `tsd-lite` will use the default TS compiler configuration without altering it. This means you should set `"strict": true` to use strict assertions, which are the default ones in vanilla `tsd`.
- Only type testing is performed without any additional checks or rules.
- The `printType` helper is discarded.

## Install

```bash
yarn add -D jest-runner-tsd @tsd/typescript
```

Remember to install `@tsd/typescript` package. It is a required peer dependency.

### Usage

1. If your type tests live inside `__typetests__` folders, set up `jest.config.tsd.js` like this:

```js
module.exports = {
  displayName: {
    color: 'blue',
    name: 'types',
  },
  runner: 'jest-runner-tsd',
  testMatch: ['**/__typetests__/**/*.test.ts'],
};
```

> 2. Add [`tsconfig.json`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) to your project with configuration for TS compiler.

Author: This is also unclear. An additional section on `Configuration` would do better job.

> # jest-runner-tsd

Reviewer: why?

Author: Set in monospace font it was too long for mobile screen ;D Seemed like bold is enough. Not important at all. Can stay.

> Run your TypeScript type tests using Jest.

[![version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-tsd)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://github.com/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

**Note:** the `jest-runner-tsd` is using [`tsd-lite`](https://github.com/mrazauskas/tsd-lite) instead of [`tsd`](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd). Both of them have the same type testing logic, but `tsd-light` makes it easier to test projects written in TypeScript (or types generated by your library).

Most important differences (for the full list see [`tsd-lite` repo](https://github.com/mrazauskas/tsd-lite)):

- `tsd-lite` has no additional [rules](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd/issues/32) or checks;
- `jest.config` is used to discover test files;
- and `tsconfig.json` provides configuration for TS compiler. For details see [Configuration](#configuration) section.

## Install

```bash

> yarn add -D jest-runner-tsd @tsd/typescript

Reviewer: I think keeping both `--dev` and the npm script makes sense

```

> Remember to install `@tsd/typescript` package. It is a required peer dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to install `@tsd/typescript` package matching your version of `typescript`. It is a required peer dependency.
```

## Configuration

### Jest

> First of all, you should [configure Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration) to discover your test files. For example, if the files are suffix with `.test.ts` and live inside `__typetests__` directory, set up `jest.config.tsd.js` like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, you should [configure Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration) to discover your test files. For example, if the files has the suffix `.test.ts` and live inside `__typetests__` directory, set up `jest.config.tsd.js` like this:
```

```js
module.exports = {
  displayName: {
    color: 'blue',
    name: 'types',
  },
  runner: 'jest-runner-tsd',
  testMatch: ['**/__typetests__/*.test.ts'],
};
```

### TS Compiler

> Your test files will be compiled using the [TypeScript compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/Using-the-Compiler-API) (similarly to `tsc`), but, instead of emitting JS code, `tsd-lite` will analyze types and diagnostics returned by the compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your test files will be compiled using the [TypeScript compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/Using-the-Compiler-API) (similar to `tsc`), but, instead of emitting JS code, `tsd-lite` will analyze types and diagnostics returned by the compiler.
```

# `jest-runner-tsd`

> Run your TypeScript type tests using Jest.

[![version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/jest-runner-tsd)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd.svg)](https://github.com/jest-community/jest-runner-tsd/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

**Note:** the `jest-runner-tsd` is using [`tsd-lite`](https://github.com/mrazauskas/tsd-lite) instead of [`tsd`](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd). Both of them have the same type testing logic, but `tsd-light` makes it easier to test projects written in TypeScript (or types generated by your library).

Most important differences (for the full list see [`tsd-lite` repo](https://github.com/mrazauskas/tsd-lite)):

- `tsd-lite` has no additional [rules](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/tsd/issues/32) or checks;
- `jest.config` is used to discover test files;
- and `tsconfig.json` provides configuration for TS compiler. For details see [Configuration](#configuration) section.

## Install

```bash

> yarn add -D jest-runner-tsd @tsd/typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yarn add --dev jest-runner-tsd @tsd/typescript
```
